All right let's spend a little bit of time checking out e Lance Lance was the web site I mentioned previously.
It's by far my favorite Web site for finding freelancers.
The quality of freelancers are much higher.
They're a little bit different than the other two.
I'm going to show you the way that they work behind the scenes as they make their money off number one
featured postings.
And number two they charge a percentage to the freelancer of about eight point seventy five percent.
Now you might think that's a lot of money and it kind of is especially if you're paying and a large
project or you're having an ongoing relationship with a freelancer but compared to the other ones it's
actually a much lower freelancer for instance charges 15 percent Lance has about 2 million freelancers.
Sounds like a lot.
It's actually less than the other two.
But in my experience they're much higher quality.
They are.
It's actually a big company.
Surprisingly they make about 800 million dollars a year.
There's also we're a venture capital darling.
They have taken something like 78 million dollars in funding.
So we'll just log on and show you generally kind of what it looks like what buttons and what areas you're
going to navigate around when you go to post.
Post your first job.
So if you've played around with any of these three websites before you Lance is by far the cleanest
in terms of the user interface they separate everything out into my Elance is where they have all of
your your tasks and jobs that you've posted.
Hiring This is where you'd go if you wanted to post a job where you actually wanted to do the opposite
which is you find an individual freelancer first as opposed to posting a job and letting the freelancer
freind find you.
They have some other features on here that I'm not going to really cover but they do have quite a robust
product and has a lot of different things on here that a lot of you might have find to be pretty useful
that I don't particularly use when I use the lance.
So the way that you post the job is you would just simply go to post to job.
This is the simplest by far and it looks very simple similar to every other job posting site you've
seen it says job.
But really they mean project.
You can make it like a job because later you're going to be able to select per hour or per project and
later in the course we're going to talk in depth about whether or not you want to use per project or
per hour.
Really depends on the project that you're doing and it depends on you specifically how much experience
you have.
We're also going to cover how you should work on titles and descriptions when to do that in a later
time and really get into depth of that.
But we're just trying to get familiar with how their web site looks.
So you put the title of your job description goes here.
There is a 4000 character limit the way that you get around that is you would write as much as you can
in the described section and then you would attach an attachment a Word document with the actual multi-page
definition of what you're trying to build.
That's they do they do that because they don't want people to go and look at a posting and just see
an enormous amount of text they can describe it as your overview.
You give the overview the key details kind of give some information around who you want specifically
what type of person you're looking for and who should NOT bed.
And then put the actual details in the attachment so they can pre-qualify themselves.
They can read that verse description and then they can move on to the attachment if they're interested.
Category of work you'll notice that they're all kind of the same and all of these Web sites and bin
support is typically like virtual assistance.
People need to make phone calls Excel sheets things like that.
You can find graphic designers on here graphic design firms were specifically talking web applications
mobile applications.
But if you have a physical hardware project and that is your startup you can go into engineering manufacturing
too and there are some really talented people on here so early that you can find in legal and finance
people who can give you for instance in legal legal advice regarding your startup regarding what you're
trying to do.
And also in finance You'd be surprised you can find some part time era CFOs people who are quite good
at giving you financial advice.
Doing your books doing your cost projections.
People who can look over your pro-forma pro-forma financials performer means just in the future that's
typically a Excel calculation you'll make where you're predicting how much you think your startup will
make.
If you go the venture capital and you're not taking this course because you want to make a lifestyle
business you will have to do something like that.
And it's a useful tool to do.
Anyway I digress.
Your typical is going to be looking under I.T. and programming.
You can also use people marketing writing translation really a very broad group of people you can hire
through this Web site.
So you know it's like a subcategory.
You technically don't even have to.
There's another way of doing this.
And a lot of times depending on your application there might be you know I have a very specific skill
set you're looking for or you're building is very specific in general if that's the case and I usually
just typically live out leave out select subcategory and I use the requests specific skills or groups
and then I'll type in something very specific and you'll notice like you use an or so this will be an
example.
Maybe you want to build an e-commerce platform you don't just want someone who's skilled and just regular
e-commerce.
You don't you know you have your specific about what you want to use you don't want to use Shopify or
you don't want to use a like Wick's or Magento you want to use them.
Or you can do Zen Cart and I can add that as a skill.
Now anybody who's listed Zen Cart will get that message and they all essentially be hit up and they'll
be brought to your project and they will show it and ask them to kind of bid.
So that's a great way of honing in.
Typically then what I would end up doing is I would select skills that are complimentary to that that
you would kind of assume.
So like ph P and then I pick say ph Peak's that's the language that Zen card has made in cake THP is
a framework.
If that's something specifically you wanted to use I try to keep it broad because typically someone
who is skilled in say ph before ph 5 ph PBB which is a forum they're also going to get messages for
PH P some kind of wasting my time by saying four or five.
Or cake.
The only time I would say something specific like I'd select cake is if I've already built my application
I'm looking for another freelancer and I use cake.
So I got to make sure that they're good at that.
So just say ph see if you notice on a sidebar here this is actually kind of cool you can just use your
job templates if you're posting a job a repeat job or you're posting a job that's very similar to something
you posted before you can actually just pull it up on the side and it will automatically drop in all
of the details.
You don't have to redo that over again.
See also they do this the popular job template.
This is actually quite helpful is it first time you're doing it so you do want to get a logo design
done.
You could pick logo design and it will drop in
there you.
So it's going to give you a separate form to fill out and it's been a point you kind of in the right
direction like what type of Logo are you looking for.
And you can get see they've designed this for people who are making logos and verli looks like they've
already selected your skill for you or your section.
The last thing is you know you'll notice there's a fixed price again hourly.
What I like about you Lanson you won't notice listening in there to is when you say fix price.
You can actually say your own range and you could say decide later that's really helpful.
One of the biggest problems of the other two is that you have to determine your range beforehand.
And so what was happening is you'd say like this and you don't always know how much the application
cost.
So maybe someone will make it for $300.
What the system is going to do it's going to say no it's between 500 and 1000 You can't be below that.
Elance does not have that problem.
So you can put a suggestion and then people will bid around that.
Here's the biggest thing I think you should pay attention to when you do.
If you do a fixed price or hourly.
I always do decide later.
Always again decide later.
And why do I do that.
Because freelancers are very much influenced by the price set.
It's an anchor point.
So if I'm building an application I think it's going to cost $4000 and I say it's worth.
You know I say my budget is you know one to five thousand dollars.
Or let's say OK let's scratch and let's say I think my projects were $6000.
So I would say five to $10000 what will happen is you will have freelancers who would build this for
$4000 or three or $2000.
But they see that your budget is five to ten and they're more likely going a bit higher.
That has happened pretty much every single time I've done this where I've set my own price so you are
going to influence their bids and a lot of them are just going to assume that you don't know the actual
price or they're going to assume that they're wrong.
The point is if you say decide later they're in the dark they need to come up with their own price and
that's what you want them to do any way you want them to think about it.
They want them to pitch their price to you based on the analysis they've done of what you've written.
Right.
You don't want them to be to look at other people's bids and base it off of that.
That's the lazy way.
That's the inaccurate way.
Location privacy and other options this is you can set it as public you can allow Google to index it.
That's definitely something you want to do unless you think you have some IP protection issues so if
you're pitching something and you don't want to get out there maybe you don't want to check that.
But you can also prefer people from a certain location.
It this actually in my experience doesn't work particularly well because so like for instance it says
select a region OK.
Like I said North America that is really imprecise North America also mind you includes Central America
Mexico.
It includes the Caribbean.
So maybe that's not something I want but of course I could have selected North America because I like
the time zones but realistically I selected North America because I want an American or Canadian.
That's why I really hate the way they do this because even if I say you know there's a lot of these
kind of loopholes to it.
So like Australia.
OCEANA.
I mean I want Australia right but that also brings up things like Papa New Guinea.
I think it also might actually bring in like Indonesian bidders and people from like small islands like
now roo and things like that.
It's really kind of bizarre.
So I very rarely use that.
This is a problem with the L'anse.
You can do country.
But again this drives me nuts too because I want to say multiple countries and the other ones you can
do that Neal and you're kind of just screwed.
I mean you have to pick one country so you'd pick the United States.
This is cool because you can actually go down and drill down to the city and state if the case is that
you feel more comfortable working with someone in your own city or within driving distance.
That's something you would do.
And so you can sit with them sometimes and actually have face to face later we're going to talk about
graphic designers and how that can be very advantageous to have someone who works in your city and someone
who you can meet for coffee to go over designs with developers.
That's not really not particularly the case.
Developers are you're not going to get as much from meeting them face to face.
And that's something that they're going to find quite annoying and it's going to be kind of distracting
for them so I don't think are going to get much out of it.
Typically when you meet with them it's kind of the idea that maybe they can showcase what they've built
so far with development it's just the case that if you meet them halfway through the project they can't
show you half your website.
That's just not how programming works.
Propose start date you can do it immediately.
So it launches right after you launch it just goes through a quick review period and or you can set
a date in the future later in the course as an extra.
What I'm going to do is we're going to go through a live demo and I'm going to make up a web application
show you how to wireframe it show you how to disk right the project description the project specifications
post it and then select someone.
But right now we're just getting you used to Elance.
And at this point in the course you should just be familiar with it and kind of know no I want to encourage
you to actually go out and play with these websites so that you get more comfortable with them.
The other thing is I want to point out with Elance would be one when you search you have two options.
You can search for jobs or freelancers.
You can also search for portfolio samples but that's that never really seems to work out particularly
well.
So one benefit is this you can say freelancers.
So let's say you wanted to build an application I can borrow something from a project I did before 12
so let's say I wanted to look for freelancers that are skilled in Twilio because again maybe I have
a very specific idea of what I want to build.
I don't want to post a job I would rather go after individual freelancers and try to recruit them that
way.
So I can say truly a
scuse my computer.
OK so you can see people here that advertise themselves with Twilio to Olio.
And if they're advertising themselves saying that they're good at Tullio chances are that's one of the
things this subtitle page right here.
It's limited by characters so you actually see that they're putting it up there that means there that's
one of their big things that they do.
And again you can drill down.
We could say zip code.
OK.
Like I was saying you could look based on distance.
And so when I put a 9 4 1 0 9 that is the zip code for San Francisco and now I can see people who are
good at Tulio in my area to see here's a tweet Liow developer he's an expert Tullio developer.
This is California so he's about forty nine dollars an hour.
Sixty six seventy nine dollars an hour.
So if that's what you wanted to do you could do that.
L.A. is the place to do that if you want to look for an individual local freelancer.
I think it's a it's a good way of doing it.
But there are options available for you if you're trying to do something really specific that helps.
I also suggest that when you post your job posting you go ahead and search for freelancers anyway.
Look for people who have very specific skills to what you're trying to build and you can individually
recruit them.
And the way that you do that is you just say like hire me it's a button and what I'll do is it will
prompt you to send them a message and invite them to your job posting and that will help considerably
because say you post your job posting and it's a generic you know a Ph based forum Web site.
It's only going to attract so many people because so many people there are only so many people who are
actively browsing.
But if you actually yourself go out and look for some people you want you can dramatically kind of increase
the participation in your job by individually going after people and saying I went in you know I want
to I would invite people to my project and and if you invite them directly.
The odds of them bidding are significantly higher.
Probably 60 70 percent will end up actually providing a bed.
And then alternatively you can search for jobs.
I like this because so let's try this again.
Say Twilley.
The reason why I do this is why this is helpful is because I can go and look at other people's jobs.
And sometimes when I'm writing descriptions running specifications I kind of get stuck.
I've written everything I can think of and I can think that could be on it but I would be curious to
see what other people are saying and so you can do is you can search for other jobs.
I can look at say a mobile application that might include this and I can kind of search their listing
to see if there's any information around Twilley that might be useful or something they included I can
think of and that's it.
This is where I've gotten a lot of my kind of a lot of the things I put at the end of my specifications
from because over time I've kind of just made a compounding list of the things I need to remember to
mention.
So here's an interesting that they listed out the Twilio SDK.
I'm not sure why you would want to do that but that's something that they pull out.
So maybe there's someone who does Twilley know but they are not familiar with the with putting it on
an application for Android or iOS So you put it there.
That could be helpful.
So anyway that's a way that I've put together a really good specification sheet like master template.
I've just gone through and looked at other projects that are similar to what I'm posting.
I noticed that people are really good at it.
And so I've just kind of borrowed some of the things that they they have done Nazi manage.
This is kind of the section where you do things like payments.
You can also deal with files and you know transactions in your team.
I mentioned earlier Odessa as the thing called Team view.
Elance has emerged with oDesk So they've actually added that.
So you can go to your team and you can add people to it.
Right now it's just me but I could add a new team member and what it'll do is it'll ask me of all the
people in my projects who have I hired will show a list of them I can select someone add them to my
team.
What that allows me to do is it allows me to keep everyone kind of in one space but also I can ask them
to do time tracking.
That's something I've never used with Elance but it's actually a possibility if he wanted to do that.
That again is something that you might want to do if you're doing per hour because you can make sure
that they are working for how long that they're saying that they're working with.